# Working with AWS S3

## What *is* S3?
S3, or **s**imple **s**torage **s**ervice, is an Amazon service used for storing data. This data is stored in "buckets".  
The data can be stored in different formats to be retrieved for use later.  
You can also host static websites using S3    

## Using S3 with AWS CLI
For this intro to S3 we'll be using the CLI that AWS provides. Everything we do can be done in the console, but this is good for practice.  

### Prerequisites
To use AWS CLI, you need a running EC2 instance and access to your AWS access and secret keys.

### What to do once the instance is running
AWS CLI is written in Python (that means we'll need Python to install it)  
After running the update and upgrade commands, run the following:
- `sudo apt-get install python` - it's likely that this will already be installed
- `sudo apt-get install awscli`

### Configuring the CLI
***!!!ALWAYS KEEP YOUR ACCESSS AND SECRET KEYS SAFE!!!*** 
Now that that's done, we can configure the CLI. Make sure you have your access and secret keys handy. It may also help to make a note of the region you're in. (For this example, I'm using `eu-west-1`)  
Run `aws configure`  
Now enter the information as asked. If you make any mistakes, you can always edit the config file with `sudo nano ~/.aws/configure`  
Once you're done with that, you should have access to the command line!  
Run `aws s3 ls` to check.

## AWS CLI Commands
Here is the list of commands that one can use with `aws s3`  
(note that S3 paths begin with `s3://`)  
- `ls` - list directory
- `mb [bucket-name]` - create an s3 bucket. Be wary of the naming conventions as they differ from the usual
- `cp [file] [bucket]` - copy a file to the speified bucket
- `sync [bucket] [directory-name]` - copy contents of bucket to your directory
- `rb [bucket]` - removes the specified bucket, if empty
- `rm [file-name]` - removes specified file
- `website` (not yet used)
- `presign` (as above)

## Using S3 with boto3
